nist cybersecurity framework , assessment , and auditing act of 2017 ( sec. 2 ) this bill amends the national institute of standards and technology act to require the national institute of standards and technology ( nist ) , in developing standards for information systems , to emphasize the principle that expanding cybersecurity threats require : ( 1 ) engineering security from the beginning of a system 's life cycle , ( 2 ) building more trustworthy and secure components and systems from the start , and ( 3 ) applying well-defined security design principles throughout systems .
( sec. 3 ) nist must provide guidance for agencies to incorporate into their information security risk management efforts the framework for improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity ( framework ) .
such guidance shall : describe how the framework aligns or augments existing agency practices ; identify any areas of conflict or overlap between the framework and existing cybersecurity requirements ; include a template for federal agencies on how to use the framework and recommend procedures for streamlining and harmonizing existing and future cybersecurity-related requirements ; recommend other procedures for compliance with cybersecurity reporting , oversight , and policy review ; and be updated to reflect what nist learns from ongoing research , cybersecurity audits , information compiled by the federal working group , and annual reports .
nist must chair a federal working group to coordinate the development of metrics and tools to measure the effectiveness of the framework for federal agencies protecting their information and information systems .
the federal working group must assist the office of management and budget ( omb ) and office of science and technology policy ( ostp ) in publishing annual reports on agency adoption rates and the effectiveness of the framework .
nist must initiate an individual cybersecurity audit of certain agencies to assess the extent to which each agency meets information security standards .
nist shall prepare a needs-based plan for the audits that includes : ( 1 ) a description of staffing plans , ( 2 ) workforce capabilities , ( 3 ) methods of conducting such audits , ( 4 ) coordination with agencies to support such audits , ( 5 ) expected timeframe for the completion of the audits , and ( 6 ) other relevant information .
nist must report on the audit of each agency to : ( 1 ) omb , ( 2 ) the ostp , ( 3 ) the government accountability office , ( 4 ) the agency being audited and its inspector general , and ( 5 ) congress .