refugee program integrity restoration act of 2017 this bill amends the immigration and nationality act to : ( 1 ) establish the number of annual refugee admissions at 50,000 , ( 2 ) authorize the president to submit an adjustment recommendation to congress for approval based upon humanitarian or national interest concerns , and ( 3 ) provide that the president must submit emergency refugee admission recommendations to congress for approval .
the president shall ( currently , may ) terminate the refugee status of a person not entitled to such status .
refugee status is terminated for an individual who applied for such status because of persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution in the country from which he or she sought refuge on account of race , religion , nationality , membership in a particular social group , or political opinion , but who has returned to such country absent changed conditions .
the department of homeland security ( dhs ) shall , when processing refugee applications from individuals seeking refuge from a `` country of particular concern , '' grant priority to minority religion applicants whose claims are based on persecution because of their religion .
dhs may conduct recurrent background security checks of an admitted refugee until the refugee adjusts to permanent resident status .
waiver authorities are limited with respect to refugee inadmissibility and permanent resident status adjustment .
with respect to refugee status adjustment to permanent resident : ( 1 ) required u.s. residency is increased to three years ; ( 2 ) an in-person dhs interview is required ; ( 3 ) five-year reexaminations are required for a refugee whose status adjustment is refused ; and ( 4 ) deportability grounds , with an exception for public charge grounds , shall be grounds for refusal of status adjustment .
resettlement of any refugee may not be provided for in any state or locality in which the governor , chief executive , or legislature has taken action disapproving such resettlement .
u.s. citizenship and immigration services ( uscis ) shall complete a refugee processing fraud study .
dhs shall : ( 1 ) establish a program to detect the use of fraudulent documents in refugee admissions applications , which shall include placement of fraud detection officers at screening locations ; and ( 2 ) use digital recording technology to record uscis refugee interviews .
a person may not be considered a refugee if such person fled from violence in his or her country of nationality if the violence : ( 1 ) was not specifically directed at the person ; or ( 2 ) was specifically directed at the person but not because of that person 's race , religion , nationality , membership in a particular social group , or political opinion .
prior to u.s. refugee admission , dhs shall ensure that an alien is not a threat to u.s. national security based on a background check that includes a review of the alien 's publicly available internet interactions , including social media services .