family and medical insurance leave act or the family act this bill establishes the office of paid family and medical leave within the social security administration ( ssa ) .
the bill entitles every individual to a family and medical leave insurance ( fmli ) benefit payment for each month beginning on the first day of the month in which the individual meets the criteria specified below and ending 365 days later ( benefit period ) , not to exceed 60 qualified caregiving days per period .
an individual qualifies for such a benefit payment if such individual : is insured for disability insurance benefits under the social security act at the time an application is filed ; has earned income from employment during the 12 months before filing it ; and was engaged in qualified caregiving ( any activity for which the individual would be entitled to leave under the family and medical leave act of 1993 ) , or anticipates being so engaged , during the 90-day period before the application is filed or within 30 days after .
the bill prescribes a formula for determination of an individual 's monthly benefit , as well as for the maximum and minimum amounts .
an fmli benefit payment shall be coordinated with any periodic benefits received under a state or local temporary disability insurance or family leave program .
the bill prescribes criteria that make an individual ineligible for an fmli benefit payment and specifies prohibited acts by an employer and penalties for violations .
the bill establishes the federal family and medical leave insurance trust fund .
fmli benefit payments shall be made only from this fund .
no amounts from the social security trust funds or appropriated to the ssa to administer social security programs may be used for fmli benefits or administration .
the bill amends the internal revenue code to impose a tax on every individual and employer , all self-employment income , and every railroad employee , employee representative , or railroad employer to finance the federal family and medical leave insurance trust fund for fmli benefits .