building america 's trust act this bill provides for strengthening the barriers along the u.s. land and maritime borders to deter illegal activity , including through u.s. border patrol and law enforcement enhancements and personnel increases and national guard use .
the department of homeland security ( dhs ) shall : ( 1 ) establish a national border security advisory committee ; ( 2 ) submit a southern border threat analysis ; ( 3 ) implement the border security deployment program ; ( 4 ) establish a biometric exit data system ; ( 5 ) reestablish the secure communities program immigration enforcement program ; ( 6 ) expand criminal alien repatriation programs ; and ( 7 ) increase visa security at high-risk posts .
the department of agriculture may carry out livestock or plant disease prevention/eradication operations .
the bill : ( 1 ) makes it a crime to unlawfully hinder immigration , border , and customs controls ; ( 2 ) requires increases in immigration and law enforcement personnel and district judgeships ; ( 3 ) authorizes appropriations for specified immigration purposes ; and ( 4 ) requires electronic passport screening and biometric matching at airports of entry .
operation stonegarden is established as a dhs program to provide border security grants .
the department of justice shall provide grants for identification of victims of cross-border human smuggling .
the bill revises provisions regarding : ( 1 ) apprehension and detention of aliens ; ( 2 ) nonimmigrant admissions ; ( 3 ) criminal alien detention and removal ; ( 4 ) parole entry of aliens ; ( 5 ) sanctuary jurisdictions ; ( 6 ) unaccompanied alien children ; ( 7 ) human trafficking , drug trafficking , criminal organizations , and money laundering ; ( 8 ) terrorism and national security ; ( 9 ) gangs ; ( 10 ) criminal penalties , including penalties for drug trafficking and crimes committed by illegal aliens ; ( 11 ) human rights violations ; ( 12 ) visa/document fraud and other grounds for exclusion ; ( 13 ) student and exchange visitor verification ; and ( 14 ) use of immigration-related information .
an alien may not be granted any immigrant status or benefits until positive background and security checks are concluded .
the department of state shall deny or revoke the passport of a person affiliated with a foreign terrorist organization .