( this measure has not been amended since it was reported to the senate on may 4 , 2017 .
the summary of that version is repeated here . )
dr. chris kirkpatrick whistleblower protection act of 2017 title i -- employees generally ( sec. 102 ) this bill directs federal agencies ( excluding any entity that is an element of the intelligence community ) to give priority to an employee transfer request if the merit systems protections board ( mspb ) grants a stay of a personnel action at the request of : ( 1 ) the office of special counsel ( osc ) if the osc determines the personnel action was taken , or is to be taken , as a result of a prohibited personnel practice ; or ( 2 ) the employee if the individual is in probationary status and seeks corrective action .
the government accountability office ( gao ) shall report to congress on retaliation against employees in probationary status .
( sec. 103 ) the bill : ( 1 ) prohibits any employee who has the authority to take a personnel action to access the medical records of another employee or applicant for employment , ( 2 ) authorizes disciplinary action against supervisors for retaliation against whistleblowers .
( sec. 105 ) agencies must : ( 1 ) refer information about employee suicides to the osc , ( 2 ) train supervisors on responding to complaints alleging whistleblower protections violations , ( 3 ) provide information regarding whistleblower protections to new employees during probationary periods , ( 4 ) inform employees of the role of the osc and the mspb with regard to whistleblower protection , and ( 5 ) make information about such protections available on agency websites .
title ii -- department of veterans affairs employees ( sec. 201 ) the department of veterans affairs ( va ) must : ( 1 ) submit a plan to prevent unauthorized access to the medical records of va employees ; ( 2 ) conduct an outreach program to inform its employees of available mental health services , including telemedicine options ; and ( 3 ) ensure protocols are in effect to address threats against va employees providing health care .
( sec. 204 ) the gao shall assess the reporting , staffing , accountability , and chain of command structure of the va police officers at va medical centers .