veterans small business ownership improvements act this bill amends the small business act to establish the boots to business program under which the small business administration ( sba ) shall provide entrepreneurship training to : members of the armed forces , individuals participating in the transition assistance program ( department of defense ) , individuals who served on active duty and who were discharged or released under conditions other than dishonorable , and their spouses or dependents .
the sba shall establish : ( 1 ) a women veterans business training program , and ( 2 ) a business training program for service disabled veterans .
the sba shall establish a veterans ' business outreach center program to provide financial assistance to educational institutions , veterans ' nonprofit community-based organizations , and federal , state , and local departments and agencies to conduct renewable five-year projects for the benefit of small businesses owned and controlled by veterans .
an assisted entity shall establish or operate a veterans ' business outreach center to provide veterans , service-disabled veterans , and reservists , as well as their spouses , and the spouses of active duty members of the armed forces with : financial , management , and marketing advice and training ; and technical assistance and training for obtaining federal procurement opportunities .
the sba may discontinue financial assistance to an entity at any time for poor performance .
the sba shall designate at least one individual in each sba district office as a veterans business development officer to coordinate district office activities with entities receiving financial assistance under this bill .
the sba shall establish the veterans business owners initiative pilot program to provide grants to nonprofit entities for peer support groups that provide small business career training to : members of the armed forces , individuals participating in the transition assistance program ( department of defense ) , reservists , veterans , and their spouses or dependents .
the sba shall establish an online mechanism to assist veterans ' assistance providers .
the sba shall establish an online mechanism that serves as a one-stop online resource for veterans regarding sba entrepreneurial development programs .
the sba 's duties are expanded to include making grants to , or entering into cooperative agreements with , nonprofit entities to operate federal contracting training programs for veteran-owned small businesses .