vulnerable children and families act of 2017 this bill redesignates the office of children 's issues of the department of state as the office of vulnerable children and family security ( vcfs ) .
the president shall appoint an ambassador-at-large to promote : ( 1 ) oversight of the vcfs ; ( 2 ) the implementation in foreign countries of child welfare laws and policies in keeping with the goals of the united states government action plan on children in adversity ; and ( 3 ) addressing the gap in u.s. diplomacy , policy , and operations regarding permanent family care for children living without families .
the ambassador-at-large shall : ( 1 ) advise the state department and the president about vulnerable children and family security in foreign countries ; ( 2 ) represent the united states regarding international child welfare , family preservation and reunification , and provision of permanent , safe parental care ; ( 3 ) develop related policies and programs ; and ( 4 ) submit an annual report on implementation of such action plan .
the bill provides the vcfs with lead responsibility for : ( 1 ) representing the u.s. government regarding intercountry adoptions , and ( 2 ) determining whether a country has met its obligations under the hague convention of protection of children and cooperation in respect of inter-country adoption and is eligible to participate in intercountry adoptions in accordance with u.s. law .
the foreign assistance act of 1961 is amended to : ( 1 ) include in the annual country reports on human rights practices information on the conditions of children living in orphanages and group homes , and ( 2 ) repeal certain provisions providing assistance for orphans and other vulnerable children .
the special advisor for assistance to orphans and vulnerable children shall work with the ambassador-at-large to ensure that u.s. assistance and development programs are focused on : child development through the integration of health , nutrition , and family support ; facilitating government efforts to protect children from violence , exploitation , and neglect ; building integrated child welfare and protection systems ; and integrating such objectives with u.s. government agencies .