( this measure has not been amended since it was introduced .
the summary has been expanded because action occurred on the measure . )
developing innovation and growing the internet of things act or the digit act ( sec. 2 ) this bill expresses the sense of congress that policies governing the internet of things ( iot ) should maximize the potential and development of the growing number of connected and interconnected devices to benefit businesses , governments , and consumers .
( sec. 4 ) the department of commerce must convene a working group of federal stakeholders to provide recommendations and a report to congress regarding the iot .
the bill establishes a steering committee to be composed of stakeholders outside the federal government to advise the working group .
the working group must : ( 1 ) identify federal laws and regulations , grant practices , budgetary or jurisdictional challenges , and other sector-specific policies that inhibit iot development ; ( 2 ) consider policies or programs that encourage and improve coordination among federal agencies with iot jurisdiction ; ( 3 ) implement recommendations from the steering committee ; ( 4 ) examine how federal agencies can benefit from , use , prepare for , and secure the iot ; and ( 5 ) consult with nongovernmental stakeholders .
the steering committee must advise the working group about laws , budgets , spectrum needs , individual privacy , security , small business challenges , and any international proceedings or negotiations affecting the iot .
within 18 months after enactment of this bill , the working group must report its findings and recommendations , its reasons for inaction on steering committee recommendations , and an accounting of any progress by federal agencies to implement recommendations .
( sec. 5 ) the federal communications commission must : ( 1 ) seek public comment on the iot 's spectrum needs , regulatory barriers , and growth with licensed and unlicensed spectrum ; and ( 2 ) submit a summary of those comments to congress .