oira insight , reform , and accountability act ( sec. 2 ) this bill codifies and revises the centralized regulatory review process , currently required under executive order , to require the office of information and regulatory affairs ( oira ) within the office of management and budget to : ( 1 ) chair the regulatory working group that assists agencies with regulatory issues , ( 2 ) publish a unified agenda of each agency 's regulations that are under development or review , and ( 3 ) review each agency 's significant regulatory actions .
oira 's review is expanded to include the significant regulatory actions of independent regulatory agencies .
excluded from oira 's review are : ( 1 ) the government accountability office , ( 2 ) the federal election commission , ( 3 ) the governments of the district of columbia and of the territories and possessions of the united states , and ( 4 ) government-owned contractor-operated facilities .
under the bill , a `` significant regulatory action '' is any substantive regulatory action normally published in the federal register that promulgates or is expected to lead to the promulgation of a final regulation ( including notices of inquiry , advance notices of proposed rulemaking , and notices of proposed rulemaking ) , or any statement of general applicability and future effect that sets policy on or interprets a statutory , regulatory , or technical issue , that may : have an annual effect on the economy of $ 100 million or more ; adversely affect in a material way the economy , a sector of the economy , productivity , competition , jobs , the environment , public health or safety , or state , local , or tribal governments or communities ; create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency ; materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements , grants , user fees , or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients therein ; or raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates .
the regulatory working group shall consist of oira , agencies that have significant domestic regulatory responsibility , and other executive branch officials .
the group must identify methods to ensure agencies coordinate with state , local , and tribal governments .
agencies must submit annually to oira a regulatory plan with : a summary of the legal basis , need , alternatives , and schedule for each significant regulatory action they expect to issue ; an employee the public may contact for additional information about each action ; the agency 's plan to coordinate with state , local , and tribal governments throughout the regulatory process ; a description of any action taken to ensure that planned significant regulatory actions are not duplicative or conflicting with any other existing or planned regulatory action ; a retrospective review of existing regulations that are unjustified , unnecessary , duplicative , inappropriately burdensome , or otherwise recommended for removal ; and a description of any other agency program to review existing regulations .
oira must circulate an agency 's regulatory plans to any other agency that may be affected by the plans .
the other agencies must notify oira if a regulatory action conflicts with their own policies or actions , and oira must notify the relevant agencies of any conflicts .
to identify regulations that are no longer justified or that affect a particular group , industry , or economy sector , oira must : ( 1 ) work with interested entities and agencies ; ( 2 ) meet with state , local , and tribal governments ; and ( 3 ) convene conferences with businesses , nongovernmental organizations , and the public .
by march 15 and september 15 of each year , oira must publish the unified agenda of each agency 's regulations under development or review .
oira must : ( 1 ) issue guidance for agencies on the manner of submission of regulations for publication in the unified agenda , ( 2 ) provide a standard definition for each stage of review to assist the public in understanding the different terms used by agencies , and ( 3 ) review agency compliance .
the unified agenda must explain why any regulation included in the immediately previous agenda is no longer included .
oira must conduct a government-wide review of significant regulatory actions to ensure consistency with applicable law and avoid conflict with policy or action taken or planned by another agency .
each agency must provide oira with a list of each planned regulatory action with an identification of whether each such regulatory action is significant .
oira shall determine whether submitted regulatory actions are significant and must review each such significant regulatory action .
agencies may consult with oira at any time .
oira must maintain a log of each agency consultation before submitting a significant regulatory action for review .
before issuing a significant regulatory action , an agency must submit to oira for review : ( 1 ) a description of the need for the action and how the action will meet such need ; ( 2 ) an assessment of the costs and benefits ; ( 3 ) an explanation of the manner in which the significant regulatory action is consistent with a statutory mandate and avoids undue interference with state , local , and tribal government functions ; and ( 4 ) an explanation of agency efforts to coordinate with state , local , and tribal governments .
for economically significant regulatory actions , the agency must also submit any assessments developed during the decision-making process that quantify the costs and benefits of the regulatory action versus feasible alternatives and explain why the planned regulatory action is preferable to potential alternatives .
oira 's deadline to complete a review after an agency 's submission of a regulation is : ( 1 ) 10 days for a notice of inquiry , advance notice of proposed rulemaking , or other preliminary regulatory action prior to a notice of proposed rulemaking ; ( 2 ) 90 days for any other significant regulatory action that is not preliminary ; or ( 3 ) 45 days if oira has previously reviewed a regulatory action that was not preliminary and there has been no material change in the facts and circumstances .
oira 's review period may be extended for any number of additional 30-day periods upon mutual agreement of oira and the agency .
for each extension , oira shall make publicly available online a written explanation and an estimate of the expected conclusion date .
if oira is unable to conclude a review before the deadline , it may return the draft of the regulatory action to the agency with an explanation of why the review could not be completed and what additional information , resources , or time oira would need to complete the review .
an agency may withdraw the regulatory action from oira review at any time prior its completion .
oira 's review of significant regulatory actions must determine the extent to which the agency : identified and assessed the significance of the problem the regulation is designed to address ; examined whether to modify any existing regulations or laws that create or contribute to the problem ; assessed alternatives to direct regulation , including economic incentives to encourage desired behaviors ; considered risks , costs and benefits , enforcement and compliance , incentives for innovation , consistency , predictability , flexibility , distributive impacts , and equity ; used the best reasonably obtainable information ; identified performance objectives rather than behavior or manner of compliance ; sought comments from , assessed effects on , and harmonized regulations with the functions of state , local , and tribal governments ; avoided conflicts with or duplication of other existing regulations ; tailored the regulatory action to impose the least burden on society ; drafted the regulatory action to be simple and easy to understand ; and complied with requirements under executive orders , statutes , and applicable guidance .
oira must allow other agencies to review the draft regulatory action for at least 10 business days , solicit comments from other agencies , and facilitate conversations between agencies .
oira must provide an agency with the results of every standard , executive order , guidance document , and law reviewed .
as soon as practicable and before publication in the federal register of a significant regulatory action for which oira concluded review , the submitting agency shall make available to oira a redline of any changes the agency made to the regulatory action during the review period .
the agency shall identify any change made at the suggestion or recommendation of any other agency , member of the public , or other source .
oira must make the redline available to the public online along with the information submitted by the agency for review , the results of oira 's review , documents exchanged between oira senior officials and the agency during the review , and a list of each agency consultation with oira on the regulatory action .
agencies must publish on their websites : ( 1 ) a list of each active regulatory action , including an indication of the status or a link to its entry on the unified agenda ; ( 2 ) their most recent regulatory plan ; and ( 3 ) a link to each record disclosed by oira about the regulatory review .
oira must ensure that records associated with each significant regulatory action : ( 1 ) are easily accessible for a period of time consistent with approved agency records disposition schedules , and ( 2 ) can be promptly submitted to congress upon request .
this bill does not apply to agency statements : ( 1 ) issued in accordance with formal rulemaking provisions under the administrative procedure act when rules are required by statute to be made on the record after opportunity for an agency hearing ; ( 2 ) pertaining to certain military or foreign affairs functions ; ( 3 ) limited to organization , management , or personnel matters ; or ( 4 ) exempted by oira with a published explanation online that includes the date of the decision and the reasons for exemption .
( sec. 3 ) no additional funds are authorized to carry out this bill .