department of state , foreign operations , and related programs appropriations act , 2018 provides fy2018 appropriations for the department of state , foreign operations , and related programs .
provides appropriations to the state department for : administration of foreign affairs , international organizations , and international commissions .
provides appropriations for related agencies and related programs , including : the broadcasting board of governors , the asia foundation , the u.s. institute of peace , the center for middle eastern-western dialogue trust fund , the eisenhower exchange fellowship program , the israeli arab scholarship program , and the national endowment for democracy .
provides appropriations for other commissions , including : the commission for the preservation of america 's heritage abroad , the u.s. commission on international religious freedom , the commission on security and cooperation in europe , the congressional-executive commission on the people 's republic of china , and the u.s.-china economic and security review commission .
provides appropriations for the u.s. agency for international development ( usaid ) .
provides appropriations for bilateral economic assistance to : the president ; the state department ; independent agencies , including the peace corps , the millennium challenge corporation , the inter-american foundation , and the u.s. african development foundation ; and the department of the treasury .
provides appropriations to the state department and the president for international security assistance .
provides appropriations to international financial institutions for multilateral assistance .
provides appropriations for export and investment assistance to : the export-import bank of the united states , the overseas private investment corporation , and the u.s. trade and development agency .
provides appropriations to specified accounts for overseas contingency operations .
sets forth permissible and prohibited uses for funds provided by this and other appropriations acts .