( this measure has not been amended since it was reported to the senate on april 24 , 2017 .
the summary of that version is repeated here . )
dhs stop asset and vehicle excess act or the dhs save act ( sec. 2 ) this bill amends the homeland security act of 2002 to make the under secretary for management of the department of homeland security ( dhs ) responsible for overseeing and managing vehicle fleets throughout dhs , including : ensuring that dhs components are in compliance with federal law , executive branch guidance , and dhs policy regarding fleet management and use of vehicles from home to work ; developing and distributing a standardized vehicle allocation methodology and fleet management plan ; ensuring that components formally document fleet management decisions ; and approving component fleet management plans , vehicle leases , and vehicle acquisitions .
the bill lists responsibilities of component heads regarding vehicle fleets , including developing and annually submitting to the under secretary a vehicle allocation tool and fleet management plan .
the under secretary shall : collect , on a quarterly basis , information regarding component vehicle fleets ; seek to achieve a capability to collect automated information regarding component vehicle fleets ; track and monitor component information , and review each component 's vehicle allocation tool and fleet management plan , to ensure that component vehicle fleets are the optimal size and are cost effective ; provide guidance on how component heads may achieve optimal fleet size ; and as part of the annual budget process , review and make determinations regarding annual component requests for vehicle fleet funding .
beginning with fy2019 , the under secretary and component heads may not approve a vehicle lease , acquisition , or replacement request , no dhs official with vehicle fleet management responsibilities may receive annual performance compensation in pay , and no senior executive service official of dhs whose office has a vehicle fleet may receive access to a car service , if such officials did not comply with vehicle allocation tool and fleet management plan requirements in the prior fiscal year .
the under secretary may determine the feasibility of operating a vehicle motor pool to permit components to share vehicles to reduce the number of excess dhs vehicles .
( sec. 3 ) the inspector general of dhs shall : ( 1 ) conduct a review of implementation of vehicle allocation tool and fleet management plan requirements for fy2019 , which shall include analysis of the effectiveness of such requirements with respect to cost avoidance , savings realized , and component operations ; and ( 2 ) upon request , provide to specified congressional committees information regarding such review .