financial services and general government appropriations act , 2018 provides fy2018 appropriations to the department of the treasury , the executive office of the president , the judiciary , the district of columbia , and several independent agencies .
department of the treasury appropriations act , 2018 provides appropriations to the department of the treasury , including the internal revenue service .
executive office of the president appropriations act , 2018 provides appropriations to the executive office of the president and funds appropriated to the president .
judiciary appropriations act , 2018 provides appropriations to the judiciary , including the u.s. supreme court , other federal courts , administrative offices , and the u.s. sentencing commission .
district of columbia appropriations act , 2018 provides appropriations to the district of columbia , including federal funds and district of columbia funds .
provides appropriations to independent agencies , including : the administrative conference of the united states , the consumer product safety commission , the election assistance commission , the federal communications commission , the federal deposit insurance corporation , the federal election commission , the federal labor relations authority , the federal trade commission , the general services administration , the harry s. truman scholarship fund , the merit systems protection board , the national archives and records administration , the national historic publications and records commission , the national credit union administration , the office of government ethics , the office personnel management , the office of special counsel , the postal regulatory commission , the privacy and civil liberties oversight board , the public buildings reform board , the securities and exchange commission , the selective service system , the small business administration , the u.s. postal service , and the u.s. tax court .
sets forth requirements and restrictions for the use of funds provided by this and other appropriations acts .
includes several provisions that modify various financial services laws and were included in h.r. 10 ( financial choice act of 2017 ) , as passed by the house of representatives on june 8 , 2017 .
financial institution bankruptcy act of 2017 amends federal bankruptcy law to establish a new bankruptcy process for certain large financial institutions .