( this measure has not been amended since it was introduced .
the expanded summary of the house reported version is repeated here . )
quadrennial homeland security review technical corrections act of 2017 ( sec. 2 ) this bill amends the homeland security act of 2002 to make technical corrections regarding quadrennial homeland security reviews .
the bill includes among the entities with whom the department of homeland security ( dhs ) is required to consult in conducting each review appropriate advisory committees established pursuant to such act or otherwise , including the homeland security advisory council , the homeland security science and technology advisory committee , and the aviation security advisory committee .
dhs 's outline and prioritization of the full range of critical homeland security mission areas of the nation for each review must be based on a risk assessment of the nation 's homeland security interests .
each review shall include a description of : ( 1 ) the resources required for the homeland security program ( currently , a budget plan for such program ) ; and ( 2 ) the resources required to execute the missions called for in the homeland security strategy and the homeland security mission areas ( currently , a budget plan for such resources ) , including any resources identified from redundant , wasteful , or unnecessary capabilities and capacities that may be redirected to better support other existing capabilities and capacities , as the case may be .
dhs must submit the report on each review within 60 days after the date of submission of the president 's budget for the fiscal year after the fiscal year in which such a review is required ( currently by december 31 of the year in which the review is conducted ) .
the bill repeals requirements that dhs review and assess the effectiveness of the mechanisms of dhs for executing the process of turning the requirements developed in each review into an acquisition strategy and expenditure plan .
but dhs must provide information on the degree to which the findings and recommendations developed in each review were integrated into dhs 's acquisition strategy and expenditure plans .
dhs must retain and , upon request , provide specified documentation regarding each review , including : ( 1 ) records regarding the consultation carried out ; and ( 2 ) information regarding such risk assessment of the nation 's homeland security interests .
this bill shall apply to each quadrennial homeland security review conducted after december 31 , 2021 .