h-1b and l-1 visa reform act of 2017 this bill amends the the immigration and nationality act to revise employer and government requirements regarding visas for nonimmigrant aliens rated h-1b ( specialty occupation ) and l-1 ( intracompany transfer to the united states from abroad ) .
h-1b employer application requirements are revised .
the bill establishes an h-1b visa allocation system , with first priority reserved for aliens who have earned an advanced degree in a field of science , technology , engineering , or mathematics ( stem ) from a u.s. institution of higher education .
the bill requires completion of a u.s. degree ( or an equivalent foreign degree ) as a qualification for `` specialty occupation '' eligibility , eliminating experience in a specialty as an equivalent to the completion of such a degree .
the bill prescribes an h-1b labor condition application fee .
the department of labor may issue subpoenas and seek appropriate injunctive relief and specific performance of contractual obligations to ensure h-1b employer compliance .
the period of authorized admission for an h-1b nonimmigrant is reduced from six to three years , with a three-year extension available for aliens with extraordinary ability or with advanced degrees or professors .
the bill denies an h-1b visa to any alien normally classifiable as an h-1 nonimmigrant who seeks u.s. admission to provide services in a specialty occupation .
labor may investigate applications for fraud and conduct h-1b compliance audits .
labor shall conduct annual audits of companies with more than 100 employees who work in the united states if more than 15 % of those employees are h-1b nonimmigrants .
the bill increases certain employer penalties , including the penalty for displacing a u.s. worker .
an employer that violates any h-1b requirement shall be liable to the harmed employee for lost wages and benefits .
the u.s. citizenship and immigration services shall give labor any information in materials submitted by h-1b employers as part of the petition adjudication process that indicates employer noncompliance with h-1b visa program requirements .
labor may hire 200 additional employees to administer h-1b programs .
the bill prohibits an employer , unless it receives a waiver from labor , from hiring for more than one year an l-1 nonimmigrant who will : ( 1 ) serve in a capacity involving specialized knowledge , and ( 2 ) be stationed primarily at the worksite of an employer other than the petitioning employer .
no employer may replace a u.s. worker with an l-1 worker .
the bill prescribes l-1 requirements regarding : ( 1 ) employer petitions for employment at a new office , ( 2 ) wage rates and working conditions , and ( 3 ) employer penalties .
labor may initiate an l-1 employer investigation .
authority to administer l-1 visa blanket petitions is transferred from the department of justice to the department of homeland security .