support more assets , resources , and technology on the border act of 2017 or the smart act of 2017 this bill directs the secretary of homeland security ( dhs ) to take actions to achieve and maintain operational control of the u.s.-mexico border ( defined as a condition in which all illegal border crossers are apprehended and narcotics and other contraband are seized ) ; and ( 2 ) report to the government accountability office ( gao ) on such actions , achievement , and maintenance .
the gao shall , within 90 days after such report is submitted : ( 1 ) consult with state and local officials along such border regarding such operational control , and ( 2 ) report on such operational control to specified congressional committees .
the house of representatives and the senate must vote on a joint resolution on the question of whether such report should be disapproved within 90 days of receiving it or such joint resolution shall be deemed passed .
the gao shall submit an annual report on such operational control .
the department of defense ( dod ) shall : ( 1 ) deploy up to an additional 10,000 members of the national guard along the u.s.-mexico border as requested by border states , and ( 2 ) provide funds to the governor of a state who submits a state border control activities plan that is approved by dod and that specifies how personnel of the national guard of such state are to be used in border control activities .
national guard personnel may be ordered to carry out border control activities .
the bill authorizes : ( 1 ) dhs to deploy smart border technologies if necessary to achieve and maintain such operational control ; and ( 2 ) dod to transfer specified eligible equipment returned from dod operations to federal , state , and local agencies , with preference to agencies that will use such equipment primarily to strengthen border security .
the bill requires dhs : ( 1 ) if such a joint resolution of disapproval on operational control passes , to appoint an additional 1,500 border patrol agents ; ( 2 ) make grants to sheriffs ' departments along the border in texas , arizona , new mexico , and california to hire additional deputies ; and ( 3 ) establish the biometric entry and exit data system required under the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 .
dhs is authorized to make competitive grants for public-private partnerships that finance equipment and infrastructure to improve the public safety of residents of u.s. rural areas near the border by enhancing access to mobile communications for such persons .
u.s. customs and border protection shall ensure that an individual who is apprehended unlawfully crossing , or attempting to unlawfully cross , the border into the united states is counted only once for purposes of counting border apprehensions .