stop militarizing law enforcement act this bill revises the authority of the department of defense ( dod ) to transfer excess personal property to federal and state law enforcement agencies .
dod 's authority to transfer property for counter-drug activities is eliminated .
dod property recipients must : ( 1 ) provide dod with a description of intended use ; and ( 2 ) certify that they have appropriate personnel , technical capacity , and training and will return any surplus dod property .
non-federal recipients must certify that they have notified their local community of requests for dod property .
the following transfers are prohibited : controlled firearms , ammunition , grenades , and explosives ; controlled vehicles , certain trucks , and other highly mobile or mine-resistant ambush-protected vehicles ; armored or weaponized drones ; controlled aircraft that are combat configured or combat coded , or that have no established commercial flight application ; silencers ; long range acoustic devices ; and items in the federal supply class of banned items .
transfers conditioned upon the agency demonstrating the use of any small arms or ammunitions are prohibited .
transfers of previously transferred dod property from one federal or state agency to another such agency are prohibited .
dod may waive transfer prohibitions for certain trucks and vehicles ( other than mine-resistant ambush-protected vehicles ) if necessary for disasters , rescues , or other purposes where life and public safety are at risk .
dod shall require as a condition of any property transfer that the recipient agency shall return the property if the agency is : ( 1 ) investigated by the department of justice for any violation of civil liberties , or ( 2 ) otherwise found to have engaged in widespread abuses of civil liberties .
obligations or expenditures of appropriations to carry out dod 's property transfer program are prohibited unless specified conditions are met .
federal or state agencies that receive controlled property may not take ownership of such property .