presidential conflicts of interest act of 2017 this bill requires the president and vice president to submit to congress and the office of government ethics a disclosure of financial interests .
among the contents of such disclosure , the president and vice president shall : ( 1 ) include a detailed description of each financial interest of the president and vice president , the spouse of the president and vice president , or a minor child of the president and vice president ; and ( 2 ) include the tax returns filed by or on behalf of the president and vice president for the three most recent taxable years .
the president , the vice president , the spouse of the president or vice president , and any minor child of the president or vice president must divest any financial interest posing a potential conflict of interest by transferring such interest to a qualified blind trust .
within a reasonable period of time after such financial interest is transferred to a qualified blind trust , the trustee of such trust shall : ( 1 ) sell the financial interest ; and ( 2 ) use the proceeds from the sale of the financial interest to purchase conflict-free holdings .
the office of government ethics shall submit to congress , the president , and the vice president an annual report regarding the financial interests of such officials , their spouses , and any of their minor children .
the attorney general , the attorney general of any state , or any person aggrieved by a violation of divestiture requirements posing a potential conflict of interest may seek declaratory or injunctive relief if : ( 1 ) the office of government ethics is unable to issue a report indicating whether the president or vice president is in substantial compliance with such divestiture requirements ; or ( 2 ) there is probable cause to believe the president or the vice president has not complied with such requirements .
the bill amends the federal criminal code to require the recusal of presidential appointees from decisions affecting the financial holdings of a president or the spouse of a president .
prohibitions pertaining to contracts entered into by members of congress are extended to contracts by the president or vice president .
the bill amends the ethics in government act of 1978 to require the disclosure of tax returns by the incumbent president and presidential nominees of a major political party for the three most recent taxable years .
the bill declares the sense of congress that a violation of divestiture requirements of this bill or the ethics in government in government act of 1978 by the president or the vice president would constitute a high crime or misdemeanor .