drone aircraft privacy and transparency act of 2017 this bill amends the faa modernization and reform act of 2012 to direct the department of transportation ( dot ) to establish procedures to ensure that the integration of unmanned aircraft ( drone ) systems into the national airspace system is done in compliance with privacy principles .
such procedures shall not apply to a drone system operated for news-gathering activities protected by the first amendment to the constitution .
dot may not approve , issue , or award any certificate , license , or other grant of authority to operate a drone system in the national airspace system unless the pertinent application includes a data collection statement that provides reasonable assurance that the applicant will operate the drone in accordance with privacy principles .
the same requirement shall apply to any drone system to be operated by a law enforcement agency , except that the application shall include a data minimization statement , instead of a data collection statement , that provides the same assurance .
the federal aviation administration ( faa ) shall make any approved grant of authority , each such statement , and information about the drone 's owner , operator , and technical capability available in a searchable format on the public faa website .
a governmental entity may not use a drone system , or request information collected by another entity through a drone system , for protective activities or for law enforcement or intelligence purposes except pursuant to a warrant or as permitted under the foreign intelligence surveillance act of 1978 , except when : ( 1 ) a law enforcement entity reasonably believes there is an imminent danger of death or serious physical injury , or ( 2 ) the department of homeland security determines that credible intelligence indicates there is a high risk of an imminent terrorist attack by a specific individual or organization .
it shall be unlawful to operate a drone system in a manner that is not in accordance with the terms of a data collection statement or that violates the rule implementing the procedures required by this bill .
any such violation shall be treated as an unfair or deceptive act or practice under the federal trade commission act .
this bill provides for enforcement by the federal trade commission , by a civil action brought by a state , or by a private action .
the faa shall revoke the certificate , license , or other grant of authority of a drone system operated in a violation of this bill .