oira insight , reform , and accountability act this bill codifies and revises the centralized regulatory review process , currently required under executive order , to require the office of information and regulatory affairs ( oira ) within the office of management and budget to : ( 1 ) review each agency 's significant regulatory actions for compliance with procedures for cost-benefit determinations , assessments of alternatives , avoidance of conflicts with other regulations , consideration of risks and enforcement costs , and coordination with state , local , and tribal governments ; ( 2 ) circulate agency regulatory plans to other agencies to determine whether an agency 's actions will conflict with actions taken or planned by other agencies ; and ( 3 ) chair the regulatory working group that assists agencies with regulatory issues .
oira 's review is expanded to include independent regulatory agencies .
by march 15 and september 15 of each year , oira must publish the unified agenda of each agency 's regulations under development or review .
the agenda must explain why any regulation included in the immediately previous agenda is no longer included .
oira must provide a standard definition for each stage of review to assist the public in understanding the different terms used by agencies .
oira 's review period may be extended for any number of additional 30-day periods upon mutual agreement of oira and the agency .
for each extension , oira shall make publicly available online a written explanation and an estimate of the expected conclusion date .
as soon as practicable and before publication in the federal register of a significant regulatory action for which oira concluded review , the submitting agency shall make available to oira a redline of any changes the agency made to the regulatory action during the review period .
oira must make the redline available to the public online .
agencies must publish on their websites : ( 1 ) a list of each active regulatory action , including an indication of the status or a link to its entry on the unified agenda ; ( 2 ) their most recent regulatory plan ; and ( 3 ) a link to each record disclosed by oira about the regulatory review .
oira must ensure that records associated with each significant regulatory action : ( 1 ) are easily accessible for a period of time consistent with approved agency records disposition schedules , and ( 2 ) can be promptly submitted to congress upon request .