commerce , justice , science , and related agencies appropriations act , 2018 provides fy2018 appropriations to the department of commerce ; the department of justice ( doj ) ; science agencies , including the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ) and the national science foundation ( nsf ) ; and several related agencies .
department of commerce appropriations act , 2018 provides appropriations to the department of commerce for : the international trade administration , the bureau of industry and security , the economic development administration , the minority business development agency , economic and statistical analysis , the bureau of the census , the national telecommunications and information administration , the u.s. patent and trademark office , the national institute of standards and technology , the national oceanic and atmospheric administration , and departmental management .
department of justice appropriations act , 2018 provides appropriations to doj for : general administration ; the u.s. parole commission ; legal activities ; the u.s. marshals service ; the national security division ; interagency law enforcement ; the federal bureau of investigation ; the drug enforcement administration ; the bureau of alcohol , tobacco , firearms , and explosives ; and the federal prison system .
provides appropriations to doj for state and local law enforcement activities , including : the office on violence against women , the office of justice programs , and community oriented policing services ( cops ) .
science appropriations act , 2018 provides appropriations for science agencies , including : the office of science and technology policy , nasa , and the nsf .
provides appropriations to related agencies , including : the commission on civil rights , the equal employment opportunity commission , the u.s. international trade commission , the legal services corporation , the marine mammal commission , the office of the u.s. trade representative , and the state justice institute .
sets forth permissible and prohibited uses for funds provided by this and other appropriations acts .